Update README.md (#2)
Open-EO/PSC: README.md

# openEO Project Steering Committee

> This document describes how the openEO Project Steering Committee determines membership, and makes decisions on openEO project issues. The openEO project is concerned with all repositories (software and specifications etc.) found under https://github.com/Open-EO.

Author: Clarified here that it's no just software, but all repositories (software and specs)

> In brief the committee votes on proposals on https://github.com/Open-EO/PSC/issues. Proposals are available for review for at least two business days, and a single veto is sufficient to delay progress though ultimately a majority of members can pass a proposal.

Author: Changed link to the issue tracker directly as we'll propose and vote there.

## Members

Matthias Mohr is declared initial Chair of the openEO Project Steering Committee. The initial list of members of the Project Steering Committee is:

> * Jeroen Dries (@jdries)

Author: Added GitHub handles

* Luca Foresta (@lforesta)
* Alexander Jacob (@aljacob)
* Miha Kadunc (@mkadunc)
* Matthias Mohr (**chair**, @m-mohr)
* Markus Neteler (@neteler)
* Edzer Pebesma (@edzer)

> The current list will be maintained by the openEO chair on this page and will be published to the openEO web pages, too.

Author: Changed this. Should be maintained here, I'll implement that this will be automatically included in the homepage.

## Detailed Process

> 1. Proposals are written up and submitted on https://github.com/Open-EO/PSC/issues/new for discussion and voting, by any interested party, not just committee members.

Author: Directly link to the page where you can write new proposals

> 2. Proposals need to be available for review for at least two business days before a final decision can be made. Public holidays count as business days.

Author: Beforehand it was "(German) business days". That is still ambiguous due to different public holidays in different federal states (e.g. NRW). So I'd just say we ignore business days at all. As there are sometimes two public holidays in a row (e.g. Christmas), we may want to decide that "at least two business days" is changed to "at least three business days". Opionions?

3. Respondents may vote `+1` to indicate support for the proposal and a willingness to support implementation.
4. Respondents may vote `-1` to veto a proposal, but must provide clear reasoning and alternate approaches to resolving the problem within the two days.
5. A vote of `-0` indicates mild disagreement, but has no effect. A `0` indicates no opinion. A `+0` indicates mild support, but has no effect.
6. Anyone may comment on proposals on the list, but only members of the Project Steering Committee’s votes will be counted.

> 7. A proposal will be accepted if it receives +2 (including the proposer) and no vetoes (-1) or has not received enough votes in 10 business days.

Author: 14 business days seems strange. I think this was 14 days before, which would be 10 business days, I think. By the way, is Saturday a business day? We should clarify. Otherwise we may just go with two weeks (i.e. 14 days).

> 7. A proposal will be accepted if it receives +2 (including the proposer) and no vetoes (-1) or has not received enough votes in 10 business days.

Author: From PBM:

```suggestion
7. A proposal will be accepted if it receives +3 (including the proposer) and no vetoes (-1) or has not received enough votes in 20 business days.
```

9. Upon completion of discussion and voting the proposer should announce whether they are proceeding (proposal accepted) or are withdrawing their proposal (vetoed).
10. The Chair gets a vote.
11. The Chair is responsible for keeping track of who is a member of the Project Steering Committee.
12. Addition and removal of members from the committee, as well as selection of a Chair should be handled as a proposal to the committee. 
13. The Chair adjudicates in cases of disputes about voting.

### When is Vote Required?

Generally speaking, technical decisions should be made by consensus within openEO components. However, if a decision cannot be decided by consensus of the committers involved in the component, any committer can request the decision be brought to a vote of the openEO PSC. Technical decision that would be suitable for such a process include:

* Any change to PSC membership (new members, removing inactive members)

> * Anything that could cause backward compatibility issues in normative specifications (e.g., API or process specifications).

Author: We have a remark below on the review process for shared software components. so it doesn't make sense to go with them through the PSC, too. So I changed to just specifications.

> * Adding or changing substantial amounts of the specifications or code.

Author: ```suggestion
* Adding or changing substantial amounts of the normative specifications.
```

* Issues of procedure (e.g. changes to these guidelines).
* When stable releases should take place.
* Strategic decisions regarding the project and anything that might be controversial.

### Final remarks

* The Chair is the ultimate adjudicator if things break down.
* The absolute majority rule can be used to override an obstructionist veto, but it is intended that in normal circumstances vetoers need to be convinced to withdraw their veto. We are trying to reach consensus.

> * Software components that at least two other software repositories under https://github.com/Open-EO depend on, must implement a review system for breaking changes (e.g. GitHub Pull Request Approvals) that require a certain number of approvals: 2 dependants require 1 approval, more than 2 dependants require 2 approvals. Exceptions for this must go through the PSC process.

Author: I guess there could be cases where there exceptions are okay, but that should be discussed in the PSC.

### Stepping Down

> If for any reason a PSC member is not able to fully participate then they certainly are free to step down. If a member is not active (e.g., no voting or email participation) for a period of 12 months then the PSC reserves the right to seek nominations to fill that position. Should that person become active again then they would certainly be welcome, but would require a nomination.

Author: I doubt we'll set up an IRC channel? :-D
